Add general `partial_implementation` guideline (#26780)
mdn/browser-compat-data: docs/data-guidelines/index.md

This guideline was adopted to protect the quality of stable data in the face of schedule uncertainty. To learn more about the adoption of `"preview"` values, see [#12344](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/issues/12344) and [#10334](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/10334).

## `"partial_implementation"` general usage guidelines

You must set `"partial_implementation": true` when all of the following conditions are met:

- The browser's support does not implement mandatory specified behavior.
- The browser's support is inconsistent with at least one other browser.

> - The browser's support misleads or evades feature detection.

Reviewer: Dito (unless there is an important difference between "failing" vs "misleading" and "evading":

```suggestion
- The browser's support fails feature detection.
```

Author: I interpret "failing" feature detection to be a normal event ("feature detection failed, therefore this browser doesn't support the feature, now falling back to something else…") versus the thing I'm trying to capture here, where the browser produces a confusing result (i.e., showing support when it doesn't actually support it).

Maybe something like this might do?

```suggestion
- The browser's support confuses, evades, or deceives feature detection.
```

Reviewer: This goes in the right direction. As a non-native English speaker, the nuances between confusing, evading, and deceiving are not obvious to me though.

Is the gist of this equivalent to the following:

```suggestion
- The browser's support cannot be easily or accurately identified using feature detection.
```

Also, is this condition independent, or does it actually refer to the previous two conditions. And if so, would the following version be accurate:

```suggestion
- The missing or inconsistent behavior cannot be easily or accurately identified using feature detection.
```

Author: I've got another idea for you. What do you think of reducing the number of terms? I don't think the nuance of the other terms is critical. Mostly I was trying to be comprehensive (and to shortcircuit some rules lawyering from vendors, "but we _meant_ to do it this way, so it's fine").

```suggestion
- The browser's support causes confusing feature detection results.
```

To respond to your suggestion, "easily or accurately" doesn't work for me—I think it's a big change from my original proposal. For one, "easy" is subjective. I doubt we could agree on what it means among BCD maintainers, much less with developers in general.

As for "accurately," what I'm trying to get at here is that if a developer makes _any_ reasonable attempt to detect if a feature is available, but the browser _still_ doesn't behave as expected then that's a `partial_implementation`. I don't care that there might exist _some_ accurate check. Developers shouldn't have to run a comprehensive test suite (in production, on every page load!) to find out if a feature is available. And as a maintainer, I shouldn't have to say to developers, "well, you didn't check in precisely the right way to find out that this feature isn't _really_ supported" to justify our `partial_implementation` data.

Reviewer: Thanks, I think your latest suggestion is sufficiently clear.

Here are some example situations:

- `"partial_implementation": false`: All implementing browsers ignore part of a feature's specified behavior in the same way.
  This behavior is consistent and is a _de facto_ complete implementation.

- `"partial_implementation": false`: All implementing browsers provide a form control user interface, but the specification gives the implementer discretion over its look and feel.
  A developer complains that one browser's user interface lacks some desired quality that other browsers implement; they want it to be marked as partially implemented.
  Use a note or non-standard behavioral subfeature instead.

- `"partial_implementation": true`: `CSS.supports()` returns `true` for a property name and value, but the value has no behavior.
  See [Non-functional defined names imply `"partial_implementation"`](#non-functional-defined-names-imply-partial_implementation).

- `"partial_implementation": true`: One browser implements `ExampleInterface` but exposes it on the `Node` interface instead of the specified `Element` interface.
  Other implementers use the correct parent interface.

>   This misleads feature detection (`"ExampleInterface" in Element.prototype` → false), so it's partially implemented.

Reviewer: Nit: The word "misleads" keeps confusing me here. Would this be right:

```suggestion
  This fails feature detection (`"ExampleInterface" in Element.prototype` → false), so it's partially implemented.
```

Author: See my previous comment about the interpretation of "failure" in this setting.

We might make this more obvious with a different example though. Perhaps something like:

> `"partial_implementation": true`: One browser exposes a method, `example()`, but due to a bug it's a no-op. Other browsers implement the method's intended behavior. This confuses feature detection because `"example" in ExpectedInterface.prototype` returns `true`, even though the method does not work.

Reviewer: Yes, I like that a lot, although I would suggest replacing "it's a no-op" with something like "it has no observable behavior or effect" to make it clearer.

Author: I did this, somewhat modified, in 16aab1545ac411d42b683deae50db657f909ff10. It's actually a real example with the names changed: [`Notification()` in Chrome for Android](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Notification/Notification#browser_compatibility).

This guideline was adopted to protect the quality of stable data in the face of schedule uncertainty. To learn more about the adoption of `"preview"` values, see [#12344](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/issues/12344) and [#10334](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/pull/10334).

## `"partial_implementation"` general usage guidelines

You must set `"partial_implementation": true` when all of the following conditions are met:

- The browser's support does not implement mandatory specified behavior.

> - The browser's support is inconsistent with at least one other browser.

Reviewer 2: What if it's the other browser that's wrong?

Reviewer: I think what's meant here is:

> At least one other browser implements this behavior.

Reviewer 2: Ok. In that case, I'd suggest rephrasing.
Right now, this reads as "set partial implementation to true if this browser doesn't work like that other browser". And to me, I have no way of know which browser is right.

Reviewer 3: @caugner (as you know and have commented) Given an interface, it is not uncommon for new properties or methods to be added later. At that point the parent interface becomes partial even if it was complete previously. My understanding though is that you wouldn't "go back" and capture that in the interface level. The interface would remain complete?

Reviewer 4: My understanding of "complete" would be "complete at the time the data was written", so it would still hold true if another feature was added later. Does that need clarifying? It would be a real mess if people started going around retroactively marking data as partial because new features were added later.

Author: To answer some questions here:

> Right now, this reads as "set partial implementation to true if this browser doesn't work like that other browser". And to me, I have no way of know which browser is right.

All three conditions must be met. The _spec_ is almost always right—unless all implementers ignore the spec same exact way. It's possible to have partials for _all_ implementers, if they all differ from the spec _and_ they're not all mutually compatible.

> At that point the parent interface becomes partial even if it was complete previously. My understanding though is that you wouldn't "go back" and capture that in the interface level. The interface would remain complete?

Partial data doesn't cascade to descendants and it doesn't bubble up to parents. [`Intl`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl#browser_compatibility) is probably the idealized case: `Intl` is fully supported ever since it was exposed because being exposed is all it does. The fact that `Intl.Segmenter` was added much later doesn't matter for `Intl`—we don't retroactively mark it as partial.

I'm not trying to propose any radical changes here. Instead, I'm trying to describe what we usually do most of the time anyway.

- The browser's support causes confusing feature detection results.

Setting `partial_implementation` stands alone.
Unlike `"version_added": false`, `partial_implementation` does not dictate support data to descendant features.
Likewise, a subfeature's `"version_added": false` does not imply `"version_added": false` or `"partial_implementation": true` for an ancestor feature.

> Here are some example situations:
> 
> - `"partial_implementation": false`: All implementing browsers ignore part of a feature's specified behavior in the same way.
>   This behavior is consistent and is a _de facto_ complete implementation.
> 
> - `"partial_implementation": false`: All implementing browsers provide a form control user interface, but the specification gives the implementer discretion over its look and feel.
>   A developer complains that one browser's user interface lacks some desired quality that other browsers implement; they want it to be marked as partially implemented.
>   Use a note or non-standard behavioral subfeature instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Don't set** `partial_implementation` when all implementing browsers …

1. … ignore part of a feature's specified behavior in the same way
  (this consistent behavior constitutes a _de facto_ complete implementation), or
2. … provide a form control user interface, but the specification gives the implementer discretion over its look and feel
  (if one browsers' user interface lacks some quality that is desired by developers, and that other browsers implement, create a non-standard behavioral subfeature instead).
```

  <!-- TODO: link to behavioral subfeature guidelines, when available -->

> - `"partial_implementation": true`: `CSS.supports()` returns `true` for a property name and value, but the value has no behavior.
>   See [Non-functional defined names imply `"partial_implementation"`](#non-functional-defined-names-imply-partial_implementation).
> 
> - `"partial_implementation": true`: One browser exposes a constructor, `Example()`, but it always throws an error. Other browsers implement the constructor's intended behavior. This confuses feature detection because `typeof Example === "function"` returns `true`, even though the constructor does not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `partial_implementation: true` in these cases:

- `CSS.supports()` returns `true` for a property name and value, but the value has no behavior in this browser, and the value has the intended behavior in another browser.
  _See also_: [Non-functional defined names imply `"partial_implementation"`](#non-functional-defined-names-imply-partial_implementation).

- The browser exposes a constructor, `Example()`, but it always throws an error, and another browser implements the constructor's intended behavior.
  _Note_: This confuses feature detection because `typeof Example === "function"` returns `true`, even though the constructor does not work.
```
